# There Is Always A Better Word

>Hello Tobias Mayer,

>Despite what you've said, you a certainly not managing your time.

>Your time is constrained by the same physics as my time and therefore neither you nor I can manage it.  Time is beyond our ability to manage.  At best, you can choose to write a comment at LinkedIn before doing something else.  I call that 'choosing' or perhaps 'prioritizing' but it isn't 'managing' and it's certainly not time you are controlling. It is behaviour.

>You said: "Here's a thought... as you preach #NoManagement, I challenge you to live that for a week. Manage nothing, in your work or personal life. Don't manage your spending, your children's activities, your travel plans".

>Challenge accepted.

>But first, why did you use the word 'preach'?  That was very aggressive of you.  Perhaps in response to an equally aggressive comment I made…perhaps #NoManagement is an aggressive hashtag.

>Words are powerful.

>Second, I don't believe that anybody manages their spending, their children's activities, their travel plans.  Instead, to be specific – to be immaculate with our words – I 'observe' our spending and 'calculate' the impact upon my family's finances so I 'forecast' our future account balances given our spending habits.  I 'consult' with my wife and children about their activities and we 'choose' to which activities we will commit our time and finances.  I 'study' travel options and 'choose' based on schedule, cost, and commitments to others.  I don't 'manage' any of those things.

>You're quite right that many people today have the job title 'manager' -- but which expectations does that carry exactly?  What did you mean by that, exactly? May we be really specific?  What does 'manager' in a job title actually indicate?  A person with that job title can ______?

>Many people will fill that blank with verbs like: spend the company's money, facilitate meetings, support their staff, communicate strategic objectives, mediate conflict, blah blah blah.  All those activities are lazily combined into the word 'manager' – a 'manager' does those things, they say.  But to be more precise so that we understand properly, those activities are better described by other words: spender, supporter, communicator, mediator.  'Manager' is the laziest possible word to use when describing those activities.

>Many people will fill that blank with verbs like: hire employees into the company, fire employees, decide and/or influence the salary of others, decide and/or influence others' career opportunities within the company.  All those activities are lazily conflated with the word 'manager.  But to be more precise, those activities are the exclusive authority of an employer.  'Employer' is therefore a better word.

>There are some activities, however, perfectly suited to the word 'manager'.  A person with that job title can_____?  Assign work to others, decide procedure, determine schedule.  In other words, a 'manager' has authority within a company to make decisions on behalf of others regarding the work they shall perform, how they shall perform it, and when.  In other words, 'manager' is a word specifically used to describe people in a company who are granted authority to exert their will upon others.  That authority in a company is unique to 'manager' roles and the English language has no other word for that.  All other authorities and activities of a 'manager' are better described by other words -- and through deduction, when we parse the authorities of management we're left with just one activity for which English has no other words...therefore 'to manage' means 'to control others'.

>My assertion (#NoManagement) is that specific behaviour -- the controlling of other -- is no longer required in world of work.

Popular argument: "But not all managers are evil.  Some are helpful, knowledgeable, and considerate."

Sure we can and do apply many senses to the word 'management'.  Some more friendly than others: in the sense that a manager may be a person who guides others; or one who manages processes or tools for people; or one who manages nicely and with a supportive (rather than superior) manner.  To deny that 'management' denotes those meanings would be ignorant.

.... go on with examples of better words.  Goal: the words 'management' and 'manage' and 'manager' cause us to be lazy (in our thinking) -- these words are ambiguous copouts and actually obscure, rather than clarify, the pool of meaning.